--------------------
State the impact of changes in CO2 with the recent climate change, mention the importance of ob-
serving these changes with reliable data sets around the world, both from ground networks and
satellite measurements. Add key studies describing CO2 measurements with solar absorption FTIR,
describe the TCCON network and requirements, list previous studies of CO2 measurements in Mex-
ico.
--------------------
1er parrafo: Impact of CO2 in climate change, importance of observing these changes with reliable data sets
2ndo parrafo: CO2 in the context of Mexico city

Study of CO2 in Mexico City
- Baez et al., 1988 .: CO2 concentrations in the highly polluted atmosphere of Mexico City
- Grutter, 2003 .: Multi-Gas analysis of ambient air using FTIR spectroscopy over Mexico City
- Velasco et al., 2005 .: Measurements of CO2 fluxes from the Mexico City urban landscape
- Velasco et al., 2009 .: Eddy covariance flux measurements of pollutant gases in urban Mexico City

(Primer parrafo)

During the last years, carbon dioxide (CO2) has exceeded the pre-industrial levels by about 40%, with fossil fuel 
combustion and land use change as the main contributors (Hartman et al., 2013).\

(Estudios de CO2 en Mexico)

Studies done to estimate the CO2 concentrations in Mexico City have been scarce, the first one was conducted during 
1981 and 1982 and estimated the diurnal and seasonal variation taking air samples in different parts of the city 
(Baez et al., 1988). Two different campaigns (MCMA-2003, MILAGRO/MCMA-2006) have estimated the CO2 fluxes and 
concentrations during a regular day in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA) using the eddy covariance technique 
(Velasco et al., 2005, Velasco et al., 2009). The first study using a FTS was done during September 2001 in the south 
of the MCMA using a Nicolet Nexus interferometer with a resolution of 0.125 cm-1 and retrieving CO2 in the 723-766 
spectral region. The emissions inventory for the MCMA estimated that the CO2 emissions for 2012 were 42.1 million of tons.

Incluir datos del inventario de emisiones de gases de efecto invernadero de ZMVM
Leer intros de Messerschmidt y Dohe

(Estudios de CO2 en el mundo, TCCON, GOSAT)
(El conocimiento sobre el ciclo del carbono ha aumentado gracias a la observaciones realizadas por la red TCCON,
la cual cuenta con 18 sitios trabajando y series de tiempo de )
(GLOBALVIEW-CO2 mide CO2 in-situ)

The importance of having datasets of CO2 concentrations around the world have been addressed by in-situ networks like 
GLOBALVIEW-CO2 (GLOBALVIEW-CO2, 2013) and remote sensing networks like the Total Column Carbon Observing Network (TCCON).
TCCON is a worldwide ground-based network of Fourier transform spectrometers (FTS) that records solar absorption spectra 
in the near infrared (NIR) spectral region in order to retrieve column abundances of CO2, CH4 and other gases. TCCON aims
to providing reliable, long-term validation datasets for satellite measurements and to improve current knowledge of the 
carbon cycle therefore it has set a requirement of 0.25% precision in XCO2, complying with the findings of Rayner & O'Brien. 
(Poner requerimientos y precision de TCCON)

(Referencia de GLOBALVIEW)

Cooperative Global Atmospheric Data Integration Project. 2013, updated annually. Multi-laboratory compilation of synchronized 
and gap-filled atmospheric carbon dioxide records for the period 1979-2012 (obspack_co2_1_GLOBALVIEW-CO2_2013_v1.0.4_2013-12-23). 
Compiled by NOAA Global Monitoring Division: Boulder, Colorado, U.S.A. Data product accessed at http://dx.doi.org/10.3334/OBSPACK/1002

(Referencia de SEMARNAR-INECC (2012))
Mexico, quinta comunicacion nacional ante la convencion marco de las naciones unidas sobre el cambio climatico. Ciudad de Mexico: 
Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, Instituto Nacional de Ecologia y Cambio Climatico, Grupo Comunicarse, S.C.





















Methane is the second most important anthropogenic greenhouse gas. Despite its low concentration in Earth’s atmosphere, 
CH4 is responsible for about 15 % of the anthropogenic contribution to the greenhouse effect. Currently,there are networks 
for local flask ground and aircraft mea-
surements within GAW (Global Atmosphere Watch) and
NOAA CMDL/ESRL (Climate Monitoring and Diagnos-
tics Laboratory/Earth System Research Laboratory; Con-
way et al., 2003). The first global satellite data on the total
methane content in the atmospheric column were obtained
using the IMG/ADEOS (Interferometric Monitor for Green-
house Gases/Advanced Earth Observing Satellite) equipment
measuring the outgoing thermal radiation spectrum with high
spectral resolution (Kobayashi et al., 1999). Further studies
were carried out with satellite devices SCIAMACHY, AIRS,
IASI, TES (e.g., Xiong et al., 2010; Sussmann et al., 2005;
Razavi et al., 2009; Wecht et al., 2012). Despite extensive
observation programs, CH4 geographical distribution and its
sources are not known sufficiently (Solomon et al., 2007).
Regular global satellite methane measurements could lead to
solutions of the problem.
In January 2009, the GOSAT (Greenhouse gases Observ-
ing SATellite) was launched. It is a joint project of the
Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency, Ministry of the
Environment and the National Institute for Environmental
Studies in Tsukuba, Japan (Kuze et al., 2009). The satel-
lite is designed to monitor global distributions of column
contents of atmospheric CO2 and CH4 from space. Dry-air,
column-average mole fractions of carbon dioxide, XCO2 , and
methane, XCH4 (called “column-averaged methane” below),
are retrieved from the data of TANSO-FTS (Thermal And
Nearinfrared Sensor for carbon Observation - Fourier trans-
form spectrometer), which is a Fourier Transform Spectrom-
eter for measurements of carbon-bearing gases in the infrared
range from the GOSAT satellite (Yoshida et al., 2011).
Ground-based remote sensing optical measurements are
made at the stations of international networks NDACC
(Network for the Detection of Atmospheric Composition
Change) and TCCON (Total Carbon Column Observation
Network) which uses ground-based Fourier transform in-
frared (FTIR) spectroscopy of direct solar radiation for reg-
ular measurements of column contents of CO2 , CH4 and
other climate-forming gases (Wunch et al., 2011). To ob-
tain gas species contents, devices of the NDACC and TC-
CON networks usually use, respectively, middle (MIR) and
near (NIR) infrared spectral ranges. Sussmann et al. (2013)

